.github/DEVELOP.md, before:

# Developer guide

- [Technical preconditions](#technical-preconditions)
- [Build OUDS Package](#build-ouds-package)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Run tests](#run-tests)
  * [Unit tests for OUDS Swift package](#unit-tests-for-ouds-swift-package)
- [Developer Certificate of Origin](#developer-certificate-of-origin)
- [Commits, changelog, release note, versioning](#commits-changelog-release-note-versioning)
  * [About commits](#about-commits)
  * [About release note and changelog](#about-release-note-and-changelog)
- [Use of Gitleaks](#use-of-gitleaks)
- [Linter](#linter)
- [Formater](#formater)
- [Dead code](#dead-code)
- [CI/CD](#cicd)

## Technical preconditions

You should check wether or not you have the tools in use in the project like _Fastlane_, _SwiftLint_, _SwiftFormat_, etc.
You can have a look for example in the **THIRD\_PARTY.md** file which lists any dependencies and tools we use at different levels of the project.
Have a look on the locks file to know which versions we are using (*Packages.swift*, *Package.resolved*, *Gemfile* and *Gemfile.lock*).

If some tools are missing, pick the suitable command line below and check versions:
```bash
# Get updated RubyGems
gem update --system 3.6.7

# Install bundler (at least 2.6.7)
gem install bundler

# Install rbenv (at least 1.3.2)
brew install rbenv

# Use Bundler to install a major part of dependencies (thanks to Gemfile and Gemfile.lock files)
bundle install

# Update your references
brew update

# For Periphery (https://github.com/peripheryapp/periphery) for dead code hunt (at least 3.1.0)
# If you used Periphery V2 before, follow their migration guide: https://github.com/peripheryapp/periphery/wiki/3.0-Migration-Guide
brew install periphery

# For gitleaks (https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks) for secrets leaks hunt (at least 8.24.3)
brew install gitleaks
# or `brew reinstall gitleaks` to get updates if old version installed

# For SwiftLint (at least 0.59.1)
brew install swiftlint
# or `brew reinstall swiftlint` to get updates if old version installed

# For SwiftFormat (at least 0.52.4)
brew install swiftformat
# or `brew reinstall swiftformat` to get updates if old version installed

# For xcodes (at least 1.5.0)
brew install xcodesorg/made/xcodes
# or `brew reinstall xcodesorg/made/xcodes` to get updates if old version installed
```

Ensure you have the suitable _Ruby_ version. We recommend the use of [rbenv](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv) to load the suitable version of ruby.
We use here _Ruby 3_ (>= 3.4).
If you are not used to this tool:

```shell
# List available local versions of Ruby
rbenv install --list

# Apply the expected x.y.z version of Ruby (if listed previously with the command above)
rbenv global 3.4.0

# If you don't have the expected x.y.z version of Ruby, run:
# >  brew update && brew upgrade ruby-build
# >  rbenv install x.y.z
# then 
# >  rbenv global x.y.z

# Check Ruby version
ruby --version
```

We use also for our GitLab CI runners **Xcode 16.3**, we suggest you use this version or newer if you want.

**Xcode 16.3** and **Swift 6** are used for this project. You must use this configuration.

## Build OUDS Package

To build the OUDS package:
1. Open the folder containing the *Package.swift. file in Xcode
2. Select the "OUDS-Package" scheme
3. Build

You can also move the folder from the *Finder* to the [Design System Toolbox project](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios-design-system-toolbox) so as to have a local reference of the package in the demo project.

## Documentation

The documentation is based on the Swift documentation with [DocC](https://www.swift.org/documentation/docc/).
Documentation catalogs / archives can be generated through Xcode with _Product > Build Documentation_.

The `generateWebDocumentation.sh` script helps to build the HTML version of documentation and compress it in ZIP file, and also can update
the online version based on [_GitHub Pages_](https://pages.github.com/), this version is hosted in the [*gh-pages* GitHub branch](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/tree/gh-pages).

## Run tests 

### Unit tests for OUDS Swift package

The unit tests are here to ensure there are no regressions in core features, tokens management, etc.
You should run the tests using an iPhone simulator (like *iPhone 16 Pro (18.0)*).
Because OUDS is designed first for iOS, some of the OUDS API rely on UIKit (color colors and a11y features), and some tests are condioned to the platform.
SO running tests on macOS or CI/CD today won't run all the tests (see [#667](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/issues/667)).

To run these unit tests follow some steps:
1. Select the "OUDS-Package" scheme
2. In the test pane run the autocreated plan or any test scheme you want

Unit tests care have been implemented for several reasons. 

First, we don't have too much control on the raw tokens values. We rely on the _Figma_ design tool which outputs the tokens in a JSON file. 
And this file will be parsed to as to generate Swift files. But if there are inconsistencies in the _Figma_ side or in the parser side, the inconsistencies will be spread in our code base. 
It is not useful to define unit tests for raw tokens to test their values ; in fact they exist here to be updated.
But we wan still check other things like the relationship between them. For example a _grid100_ should always be less or equal than a _grid100_. Some _color100_ should be always lighter than a _color200_, etc, etc. A small typo should be always smaller or with the sale size has a one-step-bigger typo.

Then, we want to know when tokens have been removed so as to warn our users and keep release notes and changelog clean. If we don't spot such changes, maybe some users will be impacted.

Finally, we ensure our themes can override any semantic tokens. Themes are in fact a set of values for the whole universe of semantic tokens, and if a theme cannot override a semantic token, there could be an issue. Unit tests also help us to find if some tokens have been removed before releasing the library.

Beware, UI tests and snapshots tests (i.e. visual regression) are designed in the [Design System Toolbox project](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios-design-system-toolbox): we need an app to build, generated views and tigger some user inputs.

## Developer Certificate of Origin

A [GitHub Action bot](https://probot.github.io/apps/dco/) has been plugged in the repository so as to check wether or not the DCO is applied for commits.

## Commits, changelog, release note, versioning

### About commits

#### Convention commits rules

Try as best as possible to apply [conventional commits rules](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).
Keep in mind to have your commits well prefixed, and with the issue number between parenthesis at the end, and also if needed the pull request issue number.
If your commits embed contributions for other people, do not forget to [add them as co-authors](https://docs.github.com/fr/pull-requests/committing-changes-to-your-project/creating-and-editing-commits/creating-a-commit-with-multiple-authors).
All of you should also comply to DCO.

Your commit message should be prefixed by keywords [you can find in the specification](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#specification):
- `fix:`
- `feat:`
- `build:`
- `chore:`
- `ci:`
- `docs:`
- `style:`
- `refactor:`
- `perf:`
- `test:`

You can add also ! after the keyword to say a breaking change occurs, and also add a scope between parenthesis like:
- `feat!:` breaking change because..
- `feat(API)!:` breaking change in the API because..
- `feat:` add something in the API...

#### Chain of responsability

We can add metafields picked from [this good guideline](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/tree/Documentation/process/submitting-patches.rst#n525) in the commit messages.
This is not mandatory (yet) but a good practice and quite interesting to know who reviewed and validated what.
You must mention *co-authors* (*Co-authored-by*). You should add who are code reviewers (*Reviewed-by*), evolutions testers (*Tested-by*) and if needed ackers (*Acked-by*).

For example, for issue n°123 and its pull request n°456, tested by Anton, Maxime, Pierre-Yves and Benoit, reviewed by Ludovic, authored by Tayeb and Pierre-Yves, and acked by Stephen:
```text
refactor: update some things colors and design of the demo app (#123) (#4562)

Some things have been refactored to make incredible things.

Tested-by: Anton Astafev <anton.astafev@orange.com>
Tested-by: Benoit Suzanne <benoit.suzanne@orange.com>
Tested-by: Maxime Tonnerre <maxime.tonnerre@orange.com>
Tested-by: Pierre-Yves Ayoul <pierre-yves.ayoul@orange.com>
Reviewed-by: Ludovic Pinel <ludovic.pinel@orange.com>
Acked-by: Stephen McCarthy <stephen.mccarthy@orange.com>
Co-authored-by: Tayeb Sedraia <tayeb.sedraia@orange.com>
Co-authored-by: Pierre-Yves Lapersonne <pierreyves.lapersonne@orange.com>
Signed-off-by: Tayeb Sedraia <tayeb.sedraia@orange.com>
Signed-off-by: Pierre-Yves Lapersonne <pierreyves.lapersonne@orange.com>
```

#### Integration of tokenator updates

You should refer to the [dedicated page in the wiki for more details](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/wiki/20-%E2%80%90-How-to-update-tokens).

Keep in mind the commit adding *tokenator* updates in the codebase must be formatted like

```text
chore(🤖): update `OpacityRawTokens` (tokenator generation 20241021134644) (#225)
``` 

i.e. precise the tokens updated, the *tokenator* generation timestamp and the pull request number.

If you know what is the token library version, add it in the commit body, like:
```text
chore(🤖): update `OpacityRawTokens` (tokenator generation 20241021134644) (#225)

Tokens library v0.4.1
``` 

### About release note and changelog

We try also to apply [keep a changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/), and [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html) both with [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).

We can generate a `RELEASE_NOTE.md` file using the Git history and [git cliff](https://git-cliff.org/) tool.
Today we update the unique CHANGELOG manualy, but you can find [in the wiki more details about the use of git-cliff](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/wiki/52-%E2%80%90-About-changelog,-release-notes-and-hooks)

To generate a release note:

```shell
# Install git-cliff
brew install git-cliff

# Run the command
# where X is the starting tag and Y the ending tag
git-cliff --config .github/cliff.toml --output RELEASE_NOTE.md X..Y
```

## Use of Gitleaks

[Gitleaks](https://gitleaks.io/) can be used to check if secrets can be leaked or not.
A [GitHub Action](https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks-action) has been integrated to the repository with a configuration file defined in _/github/workflows_ named _gitleaks-action.yaml_.
It will launch the _Gitleaks_ tool automatically.

However this tool does not detect plain API key mixed in URL, that is a reason why _Gitleaks_ can be called in a pre-commit hook, using the _giteaks.toml_ at the root of the project.
To call _Gitleaks_ in pre-commit hooks, create a file named **pre-commit** inside _.git/hooks_ (then run `chmod u+x` in the file).
Then place the bash code below in this file:

```bash
# Run Gitleaks before commits
echo "Running pre-commit hook: Use of gitleaks"
gitleaks detect -v -l debug --source .

# If the command fails, prevent the commit
if [ $? -ne 0 ]; then
  echo "Pre-commit hook failed. Aborting commit."
  exit 1
fi
```

Or just run when you want the command:

```shell
gitleaks detect -v -l debug --source .
```

Note that we face some issues about the use of _Gitleaks GitHub Action_ and _Gitleaks_ as CLI command, for fur further details see [#131](https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks-action/issues/131), [#132](https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks-action/issues/132) and [#1331](https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks/issues/1331).

Remember _Gitleaks_ is also used in GitHub project side thanks to the [dedicated GitHub Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/gitleaks) but these controls are done online once commits have left the local environment.

## Linter

We use _SwiftLint_ in this project so as to be sure the source code follows defined guidelines for the syntax and other points.
You must run _SwiftLint_ in CLI or using _Xcode_ to be sure you don't keep and submit warnings.

We provide a command to run _SwiftLint_:
```shell
bundle exec fastlane lint
```

**In most of cases you must fix warnings, or explain why in your commits and pull request comments you choose to disable them.**

Today, only in very few cases some _SwiftLint_ warnings are disabled at files (or lower) level:
- in tests classes
- in files containing tokens which will be generated
- in tokens providers

The warnings which can be disabled for token files: 
- *missing_docs*: because tokens will be generated without documentation by the tokenator
- *identifier_name*: because the name of the tokens are defined in *Figma* and strongly related to the design system, and in they can be long
- *line_length*: because tokens definition can take a lot of place
- *file_length*: because the files containing declarations or definitions of tokens can be very long

The warnings which can be disabled for test classes files and mocks files:
- *identifier_name*: because of length of tokens names 
- *type_name*: because stringly related to the types under test, which can have a long name
- *line_length*: because of length of tokens names
- *file_length*: because of the amount of tokens to test
- *type_body_length*: because we can have a lot of tests to do
- *function_body_length*: because we can have function with a lot of assertions
- *force_try*: because we can need tod efine some configuration variable we are sure they work (like regxp)
- *required_deinit*: because we do not need to manage init and deinit of test classe
- *implicitly_unwrapped_optional*: because for declaration of themes to test we bang!

Do not forget if possible to enable the warnings in the end of the file to reduce as much as possible the scope of the disabled warnings. Disable warnings only if needed.

## Formater

We use [SwiftFormat](https://github.com/nicklockwood/SwiftFormat) to format sources and keep them clean. This tool is use in Xcode build phase.
You can run *SwiftFormat* in CLI:

```shell
bundle exec fastlane format
```

A *Git pre-commit hook* is also defined in the project. It will run *SwifFormat* before the commit so as to be sure the sources will be well formatted before being pushed.
The hook is degined in **.git-hook/pre-commit**.
To apply use, run in your project (e.g. once cloned):

```shell
git config --local --add core.hooksPath .git-hooks
```

## Dead code

We use [Periphery](https://github.com/peripheryapp/periphery) to look for dead code and help developers to track it and remove it.
This tool is run in CI/CD side and can be run localy using *Fastlane*:

Install *Periphery*:
```shell
brew install peripheryapp/periphery/periphery
```

And run:
```shell
bundle exec fastlane check_dead_code
```

## CI/CD

### GitHub Action

We use *GitHub Actions* so as to define a workflow with some actions to build and test the library.
It will help us to ensure code on pull requests or being merged compiles and has all tests green.
Workflows are the following:
- [build and run unit tests](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/blob/develop/.github/workflows/build-and-test.yml)
- [check if there are secrets leaks](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/blob/develop/.github/workflows/gitleaks.yml).
- [check if there are localizations troubles](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/blob/develop/.github/workflows/swiftpolyglot.yml)
- [check if there is dead code](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/blob/develop/.github/workflows/periphery.yml)
- [run linter](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/blob/develop/.github/workflows/swiftlint.yml)

We use also two GitHub apps making controls on pull requests and defining wether or not prerequisites are filled or not.
There is one control to check if [PR template are all defined ](https://github.com/stilliard/github-task-list-completed), and one if [DCO is applied](https://probot.github.io/apps/dco/).

### GitLab CI (internal)

We use *GitLab CI*for CI/CD with our own runners so as to keep private our sensitive files likes certificates and provisioning profiles.
Our current plan does not allow to make GitHub mirroring, so we use GitHub HTTP REST API to download sources, before using Xcode to build and sign.
However of course you will have to define all the variables, secrets and have the mandatory files.

You can find more details about the pipelines, how to set up runners and scripts to use [in the wiki](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/wiki/51-%E2%80%90-About-continuous-integration-and-delivery).

In few words, there is a pipeline containing some stages and jobs to build alpha, nightly/beta and production releases.

Commit message:

build: improve pre-commit and commit-msg Git hooks
Signed-off-by: Pierre-Yves Lapersonne <pierreyves.lapersonne@orange.com>

.github/DEVELOP.md, after:

# Developer guide

- [Technical preconditions](#technical-preconditions)
- [Build OUDS Package](#build-ouds-package)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
- [Run tests](#run-tests)
  * [Unit tests for OUDS Swift package](#unit-tests-for-ouds-swift-package)
- [Developer Certificate of Origin](#developer-certificate-of-origin)
- [Commits, changelog, release note, versioning](#commits-changelog-release-note-versioning)
  * [About commits](#about-commits)
  * [About release note and changelog](#about-release-note-and-changelog)
- [Use of Gitleaks](#use-of-gitleaks)
- [Linter](#linter)
- [Formater](#formater)
- [Dead code](#dead-code)
- [CI/CD](#cicd)

## Technical preconditions

You should check wether or not you have the tools in use in the project like _Fastlane_, _SwiftLint_, _SwiftFormat_, etc.
You can have a look for example in the **THIRD\_PARTY.md** file which lists any dependencies and tools we use at different levels of the project.
Have a look on the locks file to know which versions we are using (*Packages.swift*, *Package.resolved*, *Gemfile* and *Gemfile.lock*).

If some tools are missing, pick the suitable command line below and check versions:
```bash
# Get updated RubyGems
gem update --system 3.6.7

# Install bundler (at least 2.6.7)
gem install bundler

# Install rbenv (at least 1.3.2)
brew install rbenv

# Use Bundler to install a major part of dependencies (thanks to Gemfile and Gemfile.lock files)
bundle install

# Update your references
brew update

# For Periphery (https://github.com/peripheryapp/periphery) for dead code hunt (at least 3.1.0)
# If you used Periphery V2 before, follow their migration guide: https://github.com/peripheryapp/periphery/wiki/3.0-Migration-Guide
brew install periphery

# For gitleaks (https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks) for secrets leaks hunt (at least 8.24.3)
brew install gitleaks
# or `brew reinstall gitleaks` to get updates if old version installed

# For SwiftLint (at least 0.59.1)
brew install swiftlint
# or `brew reinstall swiftlint` to get updates if old version installed

# For SwiftFormat (at least 0.52.4)
brew install swiftformat
# or `brew reinstall swiftformat` to get updates if old version installed

# For xcodes (at least 1.5.0)
brew install xcodesorg/made/xcodes
# or `brew reinstall xcodesorg/made/xcodes` to get updates if old version installed
```

Ensure you have the suitable _Ruby_ version. We recommend the use of [rbenv](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv) to load the suitable version of ruby.
We use here _Ruby 3_ (>= 3.4).
If you are not used to this tool:

```shell
# List available local versions of Ruby
rbenv install --list

# Apply the expected x.y.z version of Ruby (if listed previously with the command above)
rbenv global 3.4.0

# If you don't have the expected x.y.z version of Ruby, run:
# >  brew update && brew upgrade ruby-build
# >  rbenv install x.y.z
# then 
# >  rbenv global x.y.z

# Check Ruby version
ruby --version
```

We use also for our GitLab CI runners **Xcode 16.3**, we suggest you use this version or newer if you want.

**Xcode 16.3** and **Swift 6** are used for this project. You must use this configuration.

## Build OUDS Package

To build the OUDS package:
1. Open the folder containing the *Package.swift. file in Xcode
2. Select the "OUDS-Package" scheme
3. Build

You can also move the folder from the *Finder* to the [Design System Toolbox project](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios-design-system-toolbox) so as to have a local reference of the package in the demo project.

## Documentation

The documentation is based on the Swift documentation with [DocC](https://www.swift.org/documentation/docc/).
Documentation catalogs / archives can be generated through Xcode with _Product > Build Documentation_.

The `generateWebDocumentation.sh` script helps to build the HTML version of documentation and compress it in ZIP file, and also can update
the online version based on [_GitHub Pages_](https://pages.github.com/), this version is hosted in the [*gh-pages* GitHub branch](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/tree/gh-pages).

## Run tests 

### Unit tests for OUDS Swift package

The unit tests are here to ensure there are no regressions in core features, tokens management, etc.
You should run the tests using an iPhone simulator (like *iPhone 16 Pro (18.0)*).
Because OUDS is designed first for iOS, some of the OUDS API rely on UIKit (color colors and a11y features), and some tests are condioned to the platform.
SO running tests on macOS or CI/CD today won't run all the tests (see [#667](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/issues/667)).

To run these unit tests follow some steps:
1. Select the "OUDS-Package" scheme
2. In the test pane run the autocreated plan or any test scheme you want

Unit tests care have been implemented for several reasons. 

First, we don't have too much control on the raw tokens values. We rely on the _Figma_ design tool which outputs the tokens in a JSON file. 
And this file will be parsed to as to generate Swift files. But if there are inconsistencies in the _Figma_ side or in the parser side, the inconsistencies will be spread in our code base. 
It is not useful to define unit tests for raw tokens to test their values ; in fact they exist here to be updated.
But we wan still check other things like the relationship between them. For example a _grid100_ should always be less or equal than a _grid100_. Some _color100_ should be always lighter than a _color200_, etc, etc. A small typo should be always smaller or with the sale size has a one-step-bigger typo.

Then, we want to know when tokens have been removed so as to warn our users and keep release notes and changelog clean. If we don't spot such changes, maybe some users will be impacted.

Finally, we ensure our themes can override any semantic tokens. Themes are in fact a set of values for the whole universe of semantic tokens, and if a theme cannot override a semantic token, there could be an issue. Unit tests also help us to find if some tokens have been removed before releasing the library.

Beware, UI tests and snapshots tests (i.e. visual regression) are designed in the [Design System Toolbox project](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios-design-system-toolbox): we need an app to build, generated views and tigger some user inputs.

## Developer Certificate of Origin

A [GitHub Action bot](https://probot.github.io/apps/dco/) has been plugged in the repository so as to check wether or not the DCO is applied for commits.

## Commits, changelog, release note, versioning

### About commits

#### Convention commits rules

Try as best as possible to apply [conventional commits rules](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).
Keep in mind to have your commits well prefixed, and with the issue number between parenthesis at the end, and also if needed the pull request issue number.
If your commits embed contributions for other people, do not forget to [add them as co-authors](https://docs.github.com/fr/pull-requests/committing-changes-to-your-project/creating-and-editing-commits/creating-a-commit-with-multiple-authors).
All of you should also comply to DCO.

Your commit message should be prefixed by keywords [you can find in the specification](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#specification):
- `fix:`
- `feat:`
- `build:`
- `chore:`
- `ci:`
- `docs:`
- `style:`
- `refactor:`
- `perf:`
- `test:`

You can add also ! after the keyword to say a breaking change occurs, and also add a scope between parenthesis like:
- `feat!:` breaking change because..
- `feat(API)!:` breaking change in the API because..
- `feat:` add something in the API...

A *Git commit-msg hook* is also defined in the project. It will run *Shell* codes to check if rules defined in the hook are respected before commit being pushed.
The hook is degined in **.git-hook/commit-msg**.

To apply it, run in your project (e.g. once cloned):

```shell
git config --local --add core.hooksPath .git-hooks
```

#### Chain of responsability

We can add metafields picked from [this good guideline](https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux.git/tree/Documentation/process/submitting-patches.rst#n525) in the commit messages.
This is not mandatory (yet) but a good practice and quite interesting to know who reviewed and validated what.
You must mention *co-authors* (*Co-authored-by*). You should add who are code reviewers (*Reviewed-by*), evolutions testers (*Tested-by*) and if needed ackers (*Acked-by*).

For example, for issue n°123 and its pull request n°456, tested by Anton, Maxime, Pierre-Yves and Benoit, reviewed by Ludovic, authored by Tayeb and Pierre-Yves, and acked by Stephen:
```text
refactor: update some things colors and design of the demo app (#123) (#4562)

Some things have been refactored to make incredible things.

Tested-by: Anton Astafev <anton.astafev@orange.com>
Tested-by: Benoit Suzanne <benoit.suzanne@orange.com>
Tested-by: Maxime Tonnerre <maxime.tonnerre@orange.com>
Tested-by: Pierre-Yves Ayoul <pierre-yves.ayoul@orange.com>
Reviewed-by: Ludovic Pinel <ludovic.pinel@orange.com>
Acked-by: Stephen McCarthy <stephen.mccarthy@orange.com>
Co-authored-by: Tayeb Sedraia <tayeb.sedraia@orange.com>
Co-authored-by: Pierre-Yves Lapersonne <pierreyves.lapersonne@orange.com>
Signed-off-by: Tayeb Sedraia <tayeb.sedraia@orange.com>
Signed-off-by: Pierre-Yves Lapersonne <pierreyves.lapersonne@orange.com>
```

#### Integration of tokenator updates

You should refer to the [dedicated page in the wiki for more details](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/wiki/20-%E2%80%90-How-to-update-tokens).

Keep in mind the commit adding *tokenator* updates in the codebase must be formatted like

```text
chore(🤖): update `OpacityRawTokens` (tokenator generation 20241021134644) (#225)
``` 

i.e. precise the tokens updated, the *tokenator* generation timestamp and the pull request number.

If you know what is the token library version, add it in the commit body, like:
```text
chore(🤖): update `OpacityRawTokens` (tokenator generation 20241021134644) (#225)

Tokens library v0.4.1
``` 

### About release note and changelog

We try also to apply [keep a changelog](https://keepachangelog.com/en/1.0.0/), and [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html) both with [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/).

We can generate a `RELEASE_NOTE.md` file using the Git history and [git cliff](https://git-cliff.org/) tool.
Today we update the unique CHANGELOG manualy, but you can find [in the wiki more details about the use of git-cliff](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/wiki/52-%E2%80%90-About-changelog,-release-notes-and-hooks)

To generate a release note:

```shell
# Install git-cliff
brew install git-cliff

# Run the command
# where X is the starting tag and Y the ending tag
git-cliff --config .github/cliff.toml --output RELEASE_NOTE.md X..Y
```

## Use of Gitleaks

[Gitleaks](https://gitleaks.io/) can be used to check if secrets can be leaked or not.
A [GitHub Action](https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks-action) has been integrated to the repository with a configuration file defined in _/github/workflows_ named _gitleaks-action.yaml_.
It will launch the _Gitleaks_ tool automatically.

However this tool does not detect plain API key mixed in URL, that is a reason why _Gitleaks_ can be called in a pre-commit hook, using the _giteaks.toml_ at the root of the project.
To call _Gitleaks_ in pre-commit hooks, create a file named **pre-commit** inside _.git/hooks_ (then run `chmod u+x` in the file).
Then place the bash code below in this file:

```bash
# Run Gitleaks before commits
echo "Running pre-commit hook: Use of gitleaks"
gitleaks detect -v -l debug --source .

# If the command fails, prevent the commit
if [ $? -ne 0 ]; then
  echo "Pre-commit hook failed. Aborting commit."
  exit 1
fi
```

Or just run when you want the command:

```shell
gitleaks detect -v -l debug --source .
```

Note that we face some issues about the use of _Gitleaks GitHub Action_ and _Gitleaks_ as CLI command, for fur further details see [#131](https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks-action/issues/131), [#132](https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks-action/issues/132) and [#1331](https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks/issues/1331).

Remember _Gitleaks_ is also used in GitHub project side thanks to the [dedicated GitHub Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/gitleaks) but these controls are done online once commits have left the local environment.

## Linter

We use _SwiftLint_ in this project so as to be sure the source code follows defined guidelines for the syntax and other points.
You must run _SwiftLint_ in CLI or using _Xcode_ to be sure you don't keep and submit warnings.

We provide a command to run _SwiftLint_:
```shell
bundle exec fastlane lint
```

**In most of cases you must fix warnings, or explain why in your commits and pull request comments you choose to disable them.**

Today, only in very few cases some _SwiftLint_ warnings are disabled at files (or lower) level:
- in tests classes
- in files containing tokens which will be generated
- in tokens providers

The warnings which can be disabled for token files: 
- *missing_docs*: because tokens will be generated without documentation by the tokenator
- *identifier_name*: because the name of the tokens are defined in *Figma* and strongly related to the design system, and in they can be long
- *line_length*: because tokens definition can take a lot of place
- *file_length*: because the files containing declarations or definitions of tokens can be very long

The warnings which can be disabled for test classes files and mocks files:
- *identifier_name*: because of length of tokens names 
- *type_name*: because stringly related to the types under test, which can have a long name
- *line_length*: because of length of tokens names
- *file_length*: because of the amount of tokens to test
- *type_body_length*: because we can have a lot of tests to do
- *function_body_length*: because we can have function with a lot of assertions
- *force_try*: because we can need tod efine some configuration variable we are sure they work (like regxp)
- *required_deinit*: because we do not need to manage init and deinit of test classe
- *implicitly_unwrapped_optional*: because for declaration of themes to test we bang!

Do not forget if possible to enable the warnings in the end of the file to reduce as much as possible the scope of the disabled warnings. Disable warnings only if needed.

## Formater

We use [SwiftFormat](https://github.com/nicklockwood/SwiftFormat) to format sources and keep them clean. This tool is use in Xcode build phase.
You can run *SwiftFormat* in CLI:

```shell
bundle exec fastlane format
```

A *Git pre-commit hook* is also defined in the project. It will run *SwifFormat* before the commit so as to be sure the sources will be well formatted before being pushed.
The hook is degined in **.git-hook/pre-commit**.
To apply it, run in your project (e.g. once cloned):

```shell
git config --local --add core.hooksPath .git-hooks
```

## Dead code

We use [Periphery](https://github.com/peripheryapp/periphery) to look for dead code and help developers to track it and remove it.
This tool is run in CI/CD side and can be run localy using *Fastlane*:

Install *Periphery*:
```shell
brew install peripheryapp/periphery/periphery
```

And run:
```shell
bundle exec fastlane check_dead_code
```

## CI/CD

### GitHub Action

We use *GitHub Actions* so as to define a workflow with some actions to build and test the library.
It will help us to ensure code on pull requests or being merged compiles and has all tests green.
Workflows are the following:
- [build and run unit tests](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/blob/develop/.github/workflows/build-and-test.yml)
- [check if there are secrets leaks](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/blob/develop/.github/workflows/gitleaks.yml).
- [check if there are localizations troubles](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/blob/develop/.github/workflows/swiftpolyglot.yml)
- [check if there is dead code](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/blob/develop/.github/workflows/periphery.yml)
- [run linter](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/blob/develop/.github/workflows/swiftlint.yml)

We use also two GitHub apps making controls on pull requests and defining wether or not prerequisites are filled or not.
There is one control to check if [PR template are all defined ](https://github.com/stilliard/github-task-list-completed), and one if [DCO is applied](https://probot.github.io/apps/dco/).

### GitLab CI (internal)

We use *GitLab CI*for CI/CD with our own runners so as to keep private our sensitive files likes certificates and provisioning profiles.
Our current plan does not allow to make GitHub mirroring, so we use GitHub HTTP REST API to download sources, before using Xcode to build and sign.
However of course you will have to define all the variables, secrets and have the mandatory files.

You can find more details about the pipelines, how to set up runners and scripts to use [in the wiki](https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ouds-ios/wiki/51-%E2%80%90-About-continuous-integration-and-delivery).

In few words, there is a pipeline containing some stages and jobs to build alpha, nightly/beta and production releases.
