THIRD_PARTY.md, before:

# Third Party Softwares

This document contains the list of Third Party Softwares along with the license information.

Third Party Software may impose additional restrictions and it is the user's responsibility to ensure that they have met the licensing
requirements of the relevant license of the Third Party Software they are using.

For further details about versions, please refer to *Gemfile*, *Gemfile.lock*, *Package.swift*, *Package.resolved* and *Podfile* files.

## In OUDS library 

## In Showcase demo app

## In Project

### Ruby gems

#### CocoaPods

Copyright 2011 Eloy Durán, Fabio Pelosin, Samuel Giddins, Marius Rackwitz, Kyle Fuller, Boris Bügling, Orta Therox, Olivier Halligon, Danielle Tomlinson, Dimitris Koutsogiorgas, Paul Beusterien, Eric Amorde

*CocoaPods* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/CocoaPods/CocoaPods).
                   
#### Fastlane

Copyright 2015-2022 The Fastlane Authors

*Fastlane* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane).

#### fastlane-plugin-changelog

Copyright 2018 Pavel Procházka

*fastlane-plugin-changelog* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/pajapro/fastlane-plugin-changelog).

#### fastlane-plugin-mattermost

Copyright 2020 cpfriend1721994

*fastlane-plugin-mattermost* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/cpfriend1721994/fastlane-plugin-mattermost).

#### net-http

*net-http* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [Ruby License](https://github.com/flori/json/blob/master/LICENSE).

#### json

*json* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [Ruby License](https://github.com/flori/json/blob/master/LICENSE).

#### xcode-install

Copyright (c) 2015 Boris Bügling

*xcode-install* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/xcpretty/xcode-install).

### Other tools

#### swift-docc-plugin

Copyright (c) 2022 Apple Inc. and the Swift project authors

*swift-docc-plugin* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [Apache 2.0 License with Runtime Library Exception](https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-docc-plugin/blob/main/LICENSE.txt).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-docc-plugin).

#### Gitleaks

Copyright (c) 2019 Zachary Rice

*gitleaks* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks).

#### Periphery

Copyright (c) 2019 Ian Leitch

*Periphery* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/peripheryapp/periphery).

#### SwiftFormat

Copyright 2016 Nick Lockwood

*SwiftFormat* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/nicklockwood/SwiftFormat).

#### SwiftLint

Copyright 2020 Realm Inc.

*SwiftLint* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/realm/SwiftLint).

Commit message:

chore: add swift-snapshot-testing (#78)
Signed-off-by: Pierre-Yves Lapersonne <pierreyves.lapersonne@orange.com>

THIRD_PARTY.md, after:

# Third Party Softwares

This document contains the list of Third Party Softwares along with the license information.

Third Party Software may impose additional restrictions and it is the user's responsibility to ensure that they have met the licensing
requirements of the relevant license of the Third Party Software they are using.

For further details about versions, please refer to *Gemfile*, *Gemfile.lock*, *Package.swift*, *Package.resolved* and *Podfile* files.

## In OUDS library 

## In Showcase demo app

### swift-snapshot-testing

Copyright 2019 Point-Free, Inc.

*swift-snapshot-testing* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/pointfreeco/swift-snapshot-testing).

## In Project

### Ruby gems

#### CocoaPods

Copyright 2011 Eloy Durán, Fabio Pelosin, Samuel Giddins, Marius Rackwitz, Kyle Fuller, Boris Bügling, Orta Therox, Olivier Halligon, Danielle Tomlinson, Dimitris Koutsogiorgas, Paul Beusterien, Eric Amorde

*CocoaPods* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/CocoaPods/CocoaPods).
                   
#### Fastlane

Copyright 2015-2022 The Fastlane Authors

*Fastlane* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/fastlane/fastlane).

#### fastlane-plugin-changelog

Copyright 2018 Pavel Procházka

*fastlane-plugin-changelog* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/pajapro/fastlane-plugin-changelog).

#### fastlane-plugin-mattermost

Copyright 2020 cpfriend1721994

*fastlane-plugin-mattermost* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/cpfriend1721994/fastlane-plugin-mattermost).

#### net-http

*net-http* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [Ruby License](https://github.com/flori/json/blob/master/LICENSE).

#### json

*json* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [Ruby License](https://github.com/flori/json/blob/master/LICENSE).

#### xcode-install

Copyright (c) 2015 Boris Bügling

*xcode-install* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/xcpretty/xcode-install).

### Other tools

#### swift-docc-plugin

Copyright (c) 2022 Apple Inc. and the Swift project authors

*swift-docc-plugin* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [Apache 2.0 License with Runtime Library Exception](https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-docc-plugin/blob/main/LICENSE.txt).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-docc-plugin).

#### Gitleaks

Copyright (c) 2019 Zachary Rice

*gitleaks* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/gitleaks/gitleaks).

#### Periphery

Copyright (c) 2019 Ian Leitch

*Periphery* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/peripheryapp/periphery).

#### SwiftFormat

Copyright 2016 Nick Lockwood

*SwiftFormat* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/nicklockwood/SwiftFormat).

#### SwiftLint

Copyright 2020 Realm Inc.

*SwiftLint* is distributed under the terms and conditions of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
You may download the source code on the [following website](https://github.com/realm/SwiftLint).
