OUDS/Core/Themes/Wireframe/Sources/_OUDSThemesWireframe.docc/OUDSThemesWireframe.md, before:

# ``OUDSThemesWireframe``

@Metadata {
    @PageImage(purpose: icon, source: "ic_theme_wireframe")
    @DisplayName("Theme Wireframe", style: symbol)
    @TitleHeading("Library")
}
<!-- 
Do not add @PageImage(purpose: card) because not managed for landing page of online doc.
See https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-docc/issues/1283
-->

This Wireframe theme is a theme for some specific usages, like for prototyping and design of journeys with non-Orange charted themes.

## Overview

<!-- NOTE: Do not forget to update tokens version -->
```
🧬 Theme version: 2.3.0
```

> Note: The Wireframe theme uses the Shantell Sans font family

> Important: The Wireframe theme does not embed charts colors yet, and is read only: it cannot be suclassed or derivated.

## How to use the theme

You can use ``WireframeTheme`` directly. To use the ``WireframeTheme`` without further modifications, you will have to use the `OUDSThemeableView` for your root view and give it an instance of ``WireframeTheme``. Keep in mind the themes are *Swift class objects* and can be heavy, so you may use only as instance as singleton and not store any properties.

```swift
@main
struct YourApp: App {
    var body: some Scene {
        WindowGroup {
            OUDSThemeableView(theme: WireframeTheme()) {
                // Your root view
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Then, in your views, you can simply use the theme through an environment variable to get the tokens:

```swift
struct SomeView: View {

    // Get OUDS environment variable for theme thanks to themeable view
    @Environment(\.theme) var theme
    
    var body: some View {
        
        // Use the theme to retrieve the tokens
        // For spaces: theme.spaces
        // For sizes: theme.sizes
        // For borders: theme.borders
        // For elevations: theme.elevations
        // For opacities: theme.opacities
        // For colors: theme.colors
        // For button configuration: theme.button
        // For link configuration: theme.link
        // Etc.
    }
}
```

## How to tune the theme

You cannot tune the Sosh theme.

## Typography

The Wireframe theme uses the Shantell Sans font family and must not use others.

## How to enrich the theme

You cannot derivate the *Wireframe* theme.

## How it looks like

<!-- Use online images because stored in another Swift Package library and do not want to replicate assets -->

### Actions

![A button component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_button_Wireframe.png)

### Controls

#### Checkboxes

@TabNavigator {
    @Tab("Checkbox") {
        ![A checkbox component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_checkbox_Wireframe.png)        
    }
    @Tab("Checkbox item") {
        ![A checkbox item component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_checkboxItem_Wireframe.png)
    }
}
<!-- Maybe not relevant to display checkbox picker -->

#### Radios

@TabNavigator {
    @Tab("Radio") {
        ![A radio button component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_radio_Wireframe.png)        
    }
    @Tab("Radio item") {
        ![A radio item component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_radioItem_Wireframe.png)
    }
}
<!-- Maybe not relevant to display radio picker -->

#### Switches

@TabNavigator {
    @Tab("Switch") {
        ![A switch component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_switch_Wireframe.png)        
    }
    @Tab("Switch item") {
        ![A switch item component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_switchItem_Wireframe.png)
    }
}

#### Chips

@TabNavigator {
    @Tab("Filter chip") {
        ![A filter chip component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_filterChip_Wireframe.png)        
    }
    @Tab("Suggestion chip") {
        ![A suggestion chip component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_suggestionChip_Wireframe.png)
    }
}
<!-- Maybe not relevant to display chip picker -->

#### Text inputs

![A text input component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_textInput_Wireframe.png)

### Indicators

#### Badge

![A badge component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_badge_Wireframe.png)

#### Tags

@TabNavigator {
    @Tab("Tag") {
        ![A tag component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_tag_Wireframe.png)        
    }
    @Tab("Input tag") {
        ![An input tag component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_inputTag_Wireframe.png)
    }
}

### Layouts

<!-- Maybe not relevant to display colored surface -->

#### Dividers

@TabNavigator {
    @Tab("Horizontal divider") {
        ![An horizontal divider component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_horizontalDivider_Wireframe.png)
    }
    @Tab("Vertical divider") {
        ![A vertical divider component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_verticalDivider_Wireframe.png)
    }
}

### Navigations

#### Link

![A link component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_link_Wireframe.png)

#### Tab bar

@TabNavigator {
    @Tab("With Liquid Glass") {
        ![A tab component in light mode with Wireframe theme and Liquid Glass](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_tabBar_LiquidGlass_Wireframe_light.png)
    }
    @Tab("Without Liquid Glass") {
        ![A tab component in light mode with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_tabBar_Wireframe_light.png)
    }
}

## Topics

### Group

- ``WireframeTheme``
- ``WireframeBrandColorRawTokens``
- ``WireframeBrandFontRawTokens``

Commit message:

docs: add illustrations in theme catalogs (#513)
Signed-off-by: Pierre-Yves Lapersonne <pierreyves.lapersonne@orange.com>

OUDS/Core/Themes/Wireframe/Sources/_OUDSThemesWireframe.docc/OUDSThemesWireframe.md, after:

# ``OUDSThemesWireframe``

@Metadata {
    @PageImage(purpose: icon, source: "ic_theme_wireframe")
    @DisplayName("Theme Wireframe", style: symbol)
    @TitleHeading("Library")
}
<!-- 
Do not add @PageImage(purpose: card) because not managed for landing page of online doc.
See https://github.com/swiftlang/swift-docc/issues/1283
-->

This Wireframe theme is a theme for some specific usages, like for prototyping and design of journeys with non-Orange charted themes.

## Overview

<!-- NOTE: Do not forget to update tokens version -->
```
🧬 Theme version: 2.3.0
```

> Note: The Wireframe theme uses the Shantell Sans font family

> Important: The Wireframe theme does not embed charts colors yet, and is read only: it cannot be suclassed or derivated.

## How to use the theme

You can use ``WireframeTheme`` directly. To use the ``WireframeTheme`` without further modifications, you will have to use the `OUDSThemeableView` for your root view and give it an instance of ``WireframeTheme``. Keep in mind the themes are *Swift class objects* and can be heavy, so you may use only as instance as singleton and not store any properties.

```swift
@main
struct YourApp: App {
    var body: some Scene {
        WindowGroup {
            OUDSThemeableView(theme: WireframeTheme()) {
                // Your root view
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Then, in your views, you can simply use the theme through an environment variable to get the tokens:

```swift
struct SomeView: View {

    // Get OUDS environment variable for theme thanks to themeable view
    @Environment(\.theme) var theme
    
    var body: some View {
        
        // Use the theme to retrieve the tokens
        // For spaces: theme.spaces
        // For sizes: theme.sizes
        // For borders: theme.borders
        // For elevations: theme.elevations
        // For opacities: theme.opacities
        // For colors: theme.colors
        // For button configuration: theme.button
        // For link configuration: theme.link
        // Etc.
    }
}
```

## How to tune the theme

You cannot tune the Sosh theme.

## Typography

The Wireframe theme uses the Shantell Sans font family and must not use others.

## How to enrich the theme

You cannot derivate the *Wireframe* theme.

## How it looks like

<!-- Use online images because stored in another Swift Package library and do not want to replicate assets -->

### Actions

![A button component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_button_Wireframe.png)

### Content display

#### Bullet list

![A bullet list component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_bullet_list_Wireframe.png)

### Controls

#### Checkboxes

@TabNavigator {
    @Tab("Checkbox") {
        ![A checkbox component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_checkbox_Wireframe.png)        
    }
    @Tab("Checkbox item") {
        ![A checkbox item component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_checkboxItem_Wireframe.png)
    }
}
<!-- Maybe not relevant to display checkbox picker -->

#### Radios

@TabNavigator {
    @Tab("Radio") {
        ![A radio button component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_radio_Wireframe.png)        
    }
    @Tab("Radio item") {
        ![A radio item component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_radioItem_Wireframe.png)
    }
}
<!-- Maybe not relevant to display radio picker -->

#### Switches

@TabNavigator {
    @Tab("Switch") {
        ![A switch component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_switch_Wireframe.png)        
    }
    @Tab("Switch item") {
        ![A switch item component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_switchItem_Wireframe.png)
    }
}

#### Chips

@TabNavigator {
    @Tab("Filter chip") {
        ![A filter chip component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_filterChip_Wireframe.png)        
    }
    @Tab("Suggestion chip") {
        ![A suggestion chip component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_suggestionChip_Wireframe.png)
    }
}
<!-- Maybe not relevant to display chip picker -->

#### Text input

![A text input component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_textInput_Wireframe.png)

### Indicators

#### Badge

![A badge component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_badge_Wireframe.png)

#### Tags

@TabNavigator {
    @Tab("Tag") {
        ![A tag component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_tag_Wireframe.png)        
    }
    @Tab("Input tag") {
        ![An input tag component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_inputTag_Wireframe.png)
    }
}

### Layouts

<!-- Maybe not relevant to display colored surface -->

#### Dividers

@TabNavigator {
    @Tab("Horizontal divider") {
        ![An horizontal divider component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_horizontalDivider_Wireframe.png)
    }
    @Tab("Vertical divider") {
        ![A vertical divider component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_verticalDivider_Wireframe.png)
    }
}

### Navigations

#### Link

![A link component in light and dark modes with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_link_Wireframe.png)

#### Tab bar

@TabNavigator {
    @Tab("With Liquid Glass") {
        ![A tab component in light mode with Wireframe theme and Liquid Glass](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_tabBar_LiquidGlass_Wireframe_light.png)
    }
    @Tab("Without Liquid Glass") {
        ![A tab component in light mode with Wireframe theme](https://ios.unified-design-system.orange.com/images/OUDSComponents/component_tabBar_Wireframe_light.png)
    }
}

## Topics

### Group

- ``WireframeTheme``
- ``WireframeBrandColorRawTokens``
- ``WireframeBrandFontRawTokens``
