OUDS/Core/Components/Sources/_OUDSComponents.docc/Actions.md, before:

# Actions

Some components can be used for **actions**.

## Overview

### Buttons

The ``OUDSButton`` propose layout with text only, icon only or text and icon. 
Four hierarchies are proposed for all layouts: *default*, *strong*, *minimal* and *negative*.
Two style are available: *default* and *loading*.
If button is placed on colored surface using `OUDSColoredSurface`, the default colors (content, background and border) are automatically adjusted to switch to monochrom.
A button with `OUDSButton.Hierarchy.Negative` hierarchy is not allowed as a direct or indirect child of an `OUDSColoredSurface`.

```swift
     // Icon only with default hierarchy
     OUDSButton(icon: Image("ic_heart"), hierarchy: .default) {}

     // Text only with negative hierarchy
     OUDSButton(text: "Delete", hierarchy: .negative) {}
```

For accessibility reasons, if the user in the system settings toggles the option to reduce the animations, the loading indicator will be frozen to be more comfortable for the user.

For ecodesign reasons, if the user toggles the low power mode, the loading indicator will be frozen to prevent the CPU to work and waste energy.

Commit message:

docs: improve documentation with components illustrations (#666) (#918)
Not possible today to define images for catalogs headers.
Not that much possible to change the look and feel in a very rpecise and fine way.
But possible to add illustrations of components in cmponents and themes pages.
Update also generation script with maangement of images and details about time.

Closes #666

Signed-off-by: Pierre-Yves Lapersonne <pierreyves.lapersonne@orange.com>

OUDS/Core/Components/Sources/_OUDSComponents.docc/Actions.md, after:

# Actions

Some components can be used for **actions**.

## Overview

### Buttons

![A button component in light and dark mode with Orange theme](component_button_enabled_strong_Orange)

The ``OUDSButton`` proposes layout with text only, icon only or text and icon. 
Four hierarchies are proposed for all layouts: *default*, *strong*, *minimal* and *negative*.
Two style are available: *default* and *loading*. 
If button is placed on colored surface using `OUDSColoredSurface`, the default colors (content, background and border) are automatically adjusted to switch to monochrom.
A button with `OUDSButton.Hierarchy.Negative` hierarchy is not allowed as a direct or indirect child of an `OUDSColoredSurface`.

```swift
     // Icon only with default hierarchy
     OUDSButton(icon: Image("ic_heart"), hierarchy: .default) {}

     // Text only with negative hierarchy
     OUDSButton(text: "Delete", hierarchy: .negative) {}
```

For accessibility reasons, if the user in the system settings toggles the option to reduce the animations, the loading indicator will be frozen to be more comfortable for the user.

For ecodesign reasons, if the user toggles the low power mode, the loading indicator will be frozen to prevent the CPU to work and waste energy.
